---
x-trestle-comp-def-rules:
  software-comp:
    - name: rule-r35
      description: Rule for r35
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: rhel9-anssi-enhanced
    href: trestle://profiles/rhel9-anssi-enhanced/profile.json
  sort-id: r35
---

# r35 - Uniqueness And Exclusivity Of System Service Accounts

## Control Statement

Each service must have its own system account and be dedicated to it exclusively.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?
Access control consists of ensuring that an access account has sufficient rights to access to a given resource. Although access control allows for partitioning, the chosen approach is generally different from that adopted by virtualization mechanisms. Indeed, access control often leaves the reference to a system object visible to the application and returns an error if there is insufficient privilege to access it, while a system based on virtualization partitions the application by the absence of a reference to this object (pointer, path access…).

Access control under Unix and derivative systems has historically been based on the notion of user
and group of users. Other mechanisms have appeared, in particular through LSM of which SELinux
and AppArmor detail are the best known and most used, in order to allow an additional finer control of rights. But the separation of privileges based on user and user groups is still the most commonly used. It can be accompanied by partitioning mechanisms (UNIX compatible mechanisms, container…) or filtering (seccomp) in order to limit access to the underlying operating system.


### Rules:

  - rule-r35

### Implementation Status: implemented

______________________________________________________________________
